.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Man page for the dmtxquery utility (libdmtx project).
.\"
.\" To view: $ groff -man -T ascii dmtxquery.1 | less
.\" To text: $ groff -man -T ascii dmtxquery.1 | col -b | expand
.\"
.TH DMTXREAD 1 "November 23, 2008"
.SH NAME
dmtxquery \- extract information from dmtxread output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmtxquery
\fIPROPERTY\fP [\fIOPTION\fP]... [\fIFILE\fP]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
dmtxquery extracts information from the XML output from dmtxread for individual or grouped barcode scan results.
.SH PROPERTY
.PP
barcode.count             count of all barcodes found in image
.PP
barcode.\fBN\fP.\fBBPROP\fP           print BPROP property of Nth barcode
.PP
message.count             count of all messages found in image
.PP
message.\fBN\fP.\fBMPROP\fP           print MPROP property of Nth message
.PP
message.\fBN\fP.barcode.count   count of all barcodes in Nth message
.PP
message.\fBN\fP.barcode.\fBM\fP       Mth barcode of Nth message, print all
.PP
message.\fBN\fP.barcode.\fBM\fP.\fBBPROP\fP Mth barcode of Nth message, print BPROP
.PP
\fBBPROP\fP barcode properties:
   message        message_number      message_position
   matrix_size    data_codewords      error_codewords
   rotation       data_regions_count  interleaved_blocks
.PP
\fBMPROP\fP message properties:
   message        data_codeword       error_codeword
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-V\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print program version information.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP
Display this help message and quit.
.SH STANDARDS
ISO/IEC 16022:2000
.PP
ANSI/AIM BC11 ISS
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to \fImike@dragonflylogic.com\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 2008 Mike Laughton
.\" end of man page
